[Music]
if you're not a morning person then you
probably love living on the moon or are
out in space the whole lack of oxygen
thing aside the round-the-clock night
sky sounds pretty tempting but that got
me to wondering why is there so much
light on earth but almost none once you
leave our planet you might think it's
light during the day and dark at night
because the Earth spins on its axis and
the Sun illuminates either hemisphere
well that's part of the reason but it's
more complicated than that I mean our
star shines on the moon too but the sky
above it is always black it comes down
to the unique atmosphere surrounding our
earth it's full of dust dirt gases and
water droplets which all act like tiny
mirrors and reflect the sunlight when
sunlight bumps into these small
particles it diffuses and creates
different colors that's why we see a
blue sky and all those spectacular
shades during sunrise and sunset it's a
whole different story elsewhere if you
find yourself on the moon where there's
no atmosphere the sky will be black
you'll be able to see stars even when
the Sun is blazing on the surface during
the lunar day the same is true of space
it's filled with lots of different gases
but it has no atmosphere with molecules
to reflect sunlight in other words space
is empty that's why even when the sun is
shining space looks like a black void if
one day the Earth's atmosphere
disappeared it'd be just as dark as it
is in space or on the moon that was
clear but the Sun isn't the only star or
source of light in the universe so why
don't other stars shine with blazing
light at night well you're not the first
one to wonder about that an astronomer
named Thomas Diggs researched this
question back in the 16th century Diggs
was sure that the universe had no end
and the stars in it could not
counted he tried to answer why all these
innumerable stars don't blind us with
glaring light but failed this questions
were just way far ahead of his time and
he didn't have the tools to find the
answer in the early 19th century German
astronomer Vilhelm Olbers suggested that
the reason the sky is dark at night was
a dusty veil that hidden most of the
stars from us this idea also proved to
be wrong later the star shed not only
light but huge energy that could heat
dust particles so that they would start
shining themselves in that case the
night sky would still be light because
of shining dust and yet the sky gets
dark every evening after sunset what's
bad about this theory then digs Olbers
and other astronomers of the past
believed the universe was Infinite but
modern astronomy knows better the number
of stars as countless as they may seem
is simply not enough to illuminate the
sky at night the sky gets dark because
the stars just as the universe itself
don't last forever they are finite you
see the universe has its own borders and
isn't as ancient as scientists used to
think sure just shy of 14 billion years
is no whippersnapper to us humans but
it's still surprisingly young in cosmic
terms and it's not much for all of the
light from the most distant stars to be
able to reach the earth in other words
thanks to our fancy powerful telescopes
we now know that it takes light billions
of years to get to us from the farthest
stars this means when we look at the sky
we glance into a very distant past
modern telescopes can show us that the
light started its journey to the earth
about ten billion years ago the more
powerful telescopes get the further back
in time we can see one day we'll be able
to see something that existed before
stars appear probably by studying the
dark gaps between them but more on that
here in a sack okay stars don't
illuminate our night sky all that much
because they're really old
even as we look up at them and they're
unimaginably far away if that's the case
then why don't less distant stars shine
as bright as the Sun there should be
thousands of stars much closer than
those on the outskirts of the universe
yeah sure
there are plenty let's take a look at
our closest space neighbour Proxima
Centauri as an example it's practically
in our backyard just over four
light-years away from us but we can't
even see it in the sky without a
telescope the thing is it's seven times
smaller than our Sun and it gives off
only a fraction of 1% of the sun's
brightness and our close neighbor just
four light years down the road is still
pretty far away
about 25 trillion miles for comparison
our own big bright Sun is a mere 93
million miles from Earth so our star is
much bigger and closer other stars might
be brighter than the Sun but they're
much farther from us - but don't all
those distant stars give at least some
noticeable light on this planet well
I'll put it this way
it'd be like switching on a ton of tiny
halogen light bulbs they're not as
bright as one big LED bulb but they do
give off part of its life so yeah they
give us a little bit of something but
it's barely noticeable remember space
might be empty compared to the Earth's
atmosphere but there are a lot of gases
out there they move around form clouds
and serve as a sort of veil hiding most
of the light in the Milky Way that's why
we can't see everything that's going on
in our galaxy we need special equipment
for that but it turns out Olbers was
sort of right only the curtain that
covers the light is made of gas and not
dust where the Big Bang comes into play
the theory states that the universe was
born in a Big Bang 13.8 billion years
ago since that time everything has been
moving away from the point where it all
began that is the universe is expanding
and objects within it are getting
farther from each other with time
sources of light also move away and
spread out which means space is getting
darker and the number of black areas is
growing they move at their own speed for
billions of years and our telescopes and
satellites fancy as they maybe can't
notice or track this movement how do we
know these black areas exist at all if
astronomers can't see them to simplify
that for sake of time they study how
visible objects behave how celestial
bodies move along an elliptical orbit
around stars or have gravity this can
only be explained with a presence of an
unknown space object or group of objects
astronomers think that most of the
matter in the universe is invisible and
it looks like black emptiness to the
human eye but how does it look through a
telescope whew all that blackness lights
up in a wondrous rainbow of colors we
can't see it because our sight is
limited to the visible light spectrum
but if you remember the electromagnetic
spectrum from back at school you'll know
that visible light is just a tiny sliver
of all those wavelengths and frequencies
there's radio microwave infrared
ultraviolet x-ray and gamma rays there
beyond the visible spectrum but all of
them exist in space and can be
registered by modern telescopes and what
they show us are seemingly dark or
invisible nebulae lit up with every
color you can imagine red blue purple
yellow orange the whole color wheel
depending on which gases make them up
who knows maybe someday we'll have
special glasses that let us see all the
colors of space just from looking up at
the night sky hey if you learn something
new today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend and here are some
other cool videos I think you'll enjoy
just click to the left or right hand
stay on the bright side